# Using the Dashboard [](id=using-the-dashboard)

The LCS Dashboard shows a project's environments and servers. If you're not
already at the Dashboard, click it near the upper left-hand corner of your LCS
site. Clicking *Dashboard* takes you to the project view. From there, you can
get to the environment view and the server view. Each of these views gives you
a different look into certain aspects of your LCS project. You'll start with the
project view. 

## Using the Project View [](id=using-the-project-view)

You can get to the project view at any time by clicking the *Dashboard* tab near
the upper left-hand corner of your LCS site. The project appears to the right of
this tab, with a drop-down arrow for switching between projects if you have more
than one. You can also switch between projects from the user menu at the top
right of the Dockbar. The project view contains a Status table that lists status
messages for each server in your project. For example, a status message appears
for a server when the server is offline. Status messages also appear for servers
when fix packs are available, monitoring is unavailable, the patching tool is
unavailable, or other events occur that relate to LCS. 

![Figure 1: The LCS project view shows an overview of your LCS project.](../../../images-dxp/lcs-project-view.png)

LCS lists the environments in your project on the left side of the screen. You 
can also create new environments here by clicking the *Add Environment* tab 
(more on this shortly). To view an environment's settings, click the
environment's gear icon. Clicking an environment shows more information about
it. This takes you to the environment view. Also note that each environment's
icon indicates the environment's type and status: 

- **Red icon:** There's a problem with one or more of the environment's servers. 
- **Green icon:** The environment's servers are operating properly. 
- **Icon with a circle:** The environment's servers are clustered. 
