# @product@ Security [](id=liferay-portal-security)

Liferay takes security very seriously. Liferay has established several
procedures to make sure that @product@ is as secure as possible. First of
all, @product@ is an open source product. As such, Liferay encourages
security-minded community members to verify the product they're using. All
Liferay users benefit when even a few don't blindly trust the provider! Please
read Liferay security statement at
[https://liferay.com/security](https://liferay.com/security) for more
information.

Next, Liferay forms a
[Community Security Team](https://dev.liferay.com/web/community-security-team).
This team addresses community security concerns, helps with security related
questions on the Liferay forums, and releases security patches for @product@
versions. Members of the Liferay community security team attend Liferay
conferences and engage in other individual activities.

If you have time, please visit our community Hall of Fame for security
reporters:
[https://dev.liferay.com/web/community-security-team/hall-of-fame](https://dev.liferay.com/web/community-security-team/hall-of-fame).
These community members helped us and invested their time to report security
issues. With their help, we make @product@ better for the community and
customers.

Although we act on community reports, we understands that community reports
alone are not enough. Liferay's internal security team also works on improving
security. Liferay's internal security team conducts internal security reviews.
They check Liferay's source code for common vulnerabilities that can be
accidentally introduced by developers. Additionally, all @product@ security
related code is reviewed by Liferay's application security team before it's
committed. For every major portal release, Liferay works with external security
partners to perform security scans and penetration testing.

Because the security cycle never ends, the internal application security team
gathers reports from Liferay customers and the Liferay community. The team also
monitors other channels (Twitter, the full disclosure mailing list, the
liferay.com forums, etc.) to catch every security issue as soon as possible.
Once fixed, Liferay's Support, Release, and other teams work on backporting and
releasing security patches for all supported versions.
