# From Liferay Portal 6 to 7 [](id=from-liferay-6-to-liferay-7)

Becoming familiar with a platform as large and fully featured as Liferay is a
big task. You learn the ins and outs of what it can do, the tips and best
practices of the experts, and you work your way through the APIs. As you do
this, you become familiar with how things work, proficient with the
platform, and start to think in terms of how you'd solve problems most
effectively using the platform's tools. 

@product-ver@ was designed as an enhancement that builds off of what you already
know. Its Code Upgrade Tool and this Learning Path help get your existing
plugins running on @product-ver@ right away. The tool automates much of the
process. After you upgrade your plugins, you can build and deploy them as you
always have. 

@product-ver@ has exciting improvements for developers too. Since you already
know previous versions of Liferay Portal, you're several steps ahead of
everybody else. 

Here you'll learn about the benefits of @product-ver@ for developers compared to
previous versions, the architectural improvements, the benefits that modularity
brings, how to develop modules, and how they differ from traditional plugins.
You'll see all the options for leveraging new developer features, learn the pros
and cons of each, and  examine steps for optimizing your existing plugins for
@product-ver@.

+$$$

**Note**: If you want to learn about @product-ver@'s architectural improvements,
OSGi and modularity, and tooling improvements, read on. If you're more
interested in upgrading your plugins first, skip to
[Planning Plugin Upgrades and Optimizations](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-1/migrating-existing-code-to-liferay-7). 

$$$

You'll start by seeing the familiar, good things that remain the same and then
examine what's changed the most since Liferay Portal 6. 
