# Querying for Content [](id=querying-for-content)

The Asset Publisher works by querying for mixed types of content on the fly.
Since you can control what and how content is displayed from one location, the
Asset Publisher helps to "bubble up" the most relevant content to your users.

To get to all the application's options, click the *Options* icon
(![Options](../../../../images/icon-options.png)) in the application's menu. If you
click the *Configuration* option and then *Setup* (if necessary), you can
configure the Asset Publisher's settings from the following three areas:

- Asset Selection
- Display Settings
- Subscriptions

Asset Selection configures which assets are displayed. You can set asset
selection to *Dynamic* or *Manual*. Dynamic displays assets based on certain
rules or filters. For example, you can set the Asset Publisher to display only
assets of a certain type or to which certain tags or categories have been
applied. Manual asset selection only displays assets that have been explicitly
selected by an administrator.

The Asset Publisher supports a scope that restricts both dynamic and manual
asset selection. The Asset Publisher can only display assets from its configured
scope. By default, the Asset Publisher app is scoped to the site of the page to
which it was added. You can, however, customize the scope from the Asset
Selection section of the Asset Publisher configuration window. To extend your
Asset Publisher's scope,

1.  Click *Select* under Scope

2.  Choose *Global* to add the global scope, *Pages...* to add the scope
    to specific pages, or *Other Site...* to add the scope of anther site.

The Display Settings section of the Asset Publisher configuration window is for
customizing how content is displayed. The Subscription section enables,
disables, or configures email subscriptions and RSS subscriptions. In the
following sections, you'll explore the available configurations for the Asset
Selection, Display Settings, and Subscriptions sections of the Asset Publisher's
configuration window. You'll start by learning how select content manually.
You'll see that it's very similar to using the Web Content Display application
except that you can select assets of any type, not just web content articles. 
