# Publishing Basic Web Content [](id=publishing-basic-web-content)

@product@'s Web Content Management is a powerful and robust tool for creating and
organizing content on your web site. You'll begin by examining some basic
concepts involving sites and pages.

As you'll see, @product@'s WCM is a full-featured solution for managing your web
site. You'll start with an overview of what it has to offer and then you'll dive
down into its features. Note that web content is just one kind of asset on
Liferay. Other types of content (blog posts, wiki articles, message board posts,
etc.) are also considered assets. @product@ provides a general framework for
handling assets that includes tags, categories, comments, ratings, and more.
Please see the
[Publishing Content Dynamically](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-content-dynamically)
section for more information on Liferay's asset framework.

## Creating Web Content [](id=creating-web-content)

Content is the reason web sites exist. @product@ has made it easier than ever to
get content published to your site. Because @product@ is so flexible, you can use
basic authoring tools right away or take advantage of the more advanced
features. It's adaptable to your needs.

You'll begin by creating some simple content using Liferay's WYSIWYG editor.
Then you'll publish it to the home page of the Lunar Resort's web site. This is
a fast and straightforward process that demonstrates how easy it is to create
and publish content on your Liferay instance. You'll learn about the Web Content
section in Site Administration so you can create and publish your first pieces
of content.

When you manage web content from the Site Administration menu, you can select
the location where the content resides. When selecting the Site Administration
dropdown from the Menu, you are presented with two scopes: site scope and page
scope. The site scope can be managed by clicking the *Site Selector* button
(![Compass](../../../images/icon-compass.png)) located on the Site
Administration dropdown menu, which is characterized by the name of the site.
From there you can select the site for which you want your content scoped. For
instance, you can add content that's available to a specific site or globally
across your Liferay instance. By default, the page scope must be configured
before you can access it. For instance, if you add a Web Content Display app to
a site page called *Lunar Rover*, you can navigate to the app's *Options* icon
(![Options](../../../images/icon-app-options.png)) and select *Configuration*
&rarr; *Scope*. From the scope dropdown, you can select the current page you're
on, which will be characterized as *New* in parenthesis. Click *Save* and return
to the Site Administration &rarr; *Content* menu. You'll now observe the
*Default Scope* option. Select the *Default Scope* icon
(![Gear](../../../images/icon-control-menu-gear.png)) and choose the page you
configured. Now the content created in this app is scoped to the *Lunar Rover*
page only. For more information on scoping content in an application, visit the
[Application Scope](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/application-scope)
section.

![Figure 1: You can choose where to create content by navigating to the Site Administration menu and selecting your site and page scope.](../../../images/site-page-scopes.png)

Once you have the Lunar Resort site selected, click on the *Web Content* link
under Content. You'll see a folder structure containing all of the web content
articles that exist in the currently selected scope (the Lunar Resort site). You
can click the *Add* icon (![Add Web Content](../../../images/icon-add.png)) &rarr;
*Folder* to create a new folder. For sites with lots of content and web content
articles, it can be very useful to use folders to group certain kinds of web
content articles together. Click *Add* &rarr; *Basic Web Content* to create a
new web content article.

![Figure 2: Click *Add* &rarr; *Basic Web Content* to create a new simple web content article. To create a new web content article based on an existing web content structure, click *Add* and then click on the name of the structure you'd like to use.](../../../images/web-content-add-menu.png)

Existing web content structures also appear in the *Add* menu. This provides
users with shortcuts for creating specific kinds of web content articles. For
example, if a web content structure called *FAQ* has been created for Frequently
Asked Questions articles in your currently selected scope, you can create a new
FAQ article by clicking *Add* &rarr; *FAQ*.

+$$$

**Note:** In previous versions of Liferay, you could specify web content types
via `portal.properties`. In @product@ 7.0, web content types are no longer used
and have been replaced by vocabularies. Vocabularies allow users to filter their
web content articles by category instead, which lets you filter your content
using the Asset Publisher and faceted search. To learn more about vocabularies
and how to use them with web content articles, see the 
[Defining Categories for Content](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/organizing-content-with-tags-and-categories#defining-categories-for-content)
section.

$$$

You have the ability to provide a structure and template to your web content
articles. You'll learn more about the power of web content structures and
templates later. For now, you'll cover the basics of creating a piece of web
content by first exploring the editor.

### Using the WYSIWYG Editor [](id=using-the-wysiwyg-editor)

Once you've clicked *Add* &rarr; *Basic Web Content*, you'll find a highly
customizable form that, by default, has three fields: title, summary, and a
powerful WYSIWYG editor. You're also provided a boolean *Searchable* switch. You
could customize this form to contain whatever fields your content needs but
you'll keep things simple for now. If web content structures have already been
created in your currently selected scope, you can select one for your new web
content article by clicking the *Structure and Template* dropdown. You'll
discuss web content structures and templates in detail in the next chapter.

Getting a new web site up and running is an exciting step for anyone, whether it
is a large corporation or a small non-profit charity. To celebrate this
momentous achievement at the Lunar Resort, you'll give our announcement some of
the pomp and circumstance it deserves!

Type the words *Welcome to the Lunar Resort* in the *Title* field. In the
*Summary* field, give a short description of the Lunar Resort's facilities. In
the *Content* field, you'll add the body of your web content article, which
you'll dive into next. Lastly, leave the *Searchable* switch enabled. Note that
if you disable the searchability of your article, it only prevents end users
from finding the article via search. Administrators still have the ability to
search for the article from the Web Content section in the Menu.

The kneejerk reaction to the simplistic looking WYSIWYG editor is "Where are the
editor's controls?" Don't let the simplistic look of the editor fool you; the
editor gives you a seamless writing experience, displaying controls when you
need them and hiding them from view when they're unnecessary. This keeps the
editor space uncluttered so you can focus on your main objective: writing. As
you create content, the context-specific controls appear.

First, add some text that will serve as the heading in your article. If you
highlight the text, controls appear. These controls let you style the text,
provide a link, or share the article on Twitter. For your heading text, select
the *Styles* dropdown and give your heading a *Heading 1* style.

Whenever you place your cursor in the content area, the *Add* icon
(![WYSIWYG Add](../../../images/icon-wysiwyg-add.png)) appears. If you click on
it, controls for inserting an image, table, or horizontal line
(![Controls](../../../images/icon-content-insert-controls.png)) appear. To
insert an image, select the icon that depicts a mountain silhouette. The image
file selector screen appears, allowing you to choose an existing image or upload
a new one. If you select an existing image in your Documents and Media 
repository, you can access the [image editor](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-files#editing-images), 
via the pencil icon (![Pencil](../../../images/icon-edit-pencil.png)) in 
the bottom right corner of the preview window, to make changes to the image.
Once you've made edits, a copy of the image is automatically created for you to 
use in your web content.

![Figure 3: You can access the image editor through the item selector window.](../../../images/image-editor-preview-window.png)

After adding an image to the web content article, clicking it brings up controls
([![Image Controls](../../../images/icon-wysiwyg-image-controls.png)) for
justifying it to the left, center, or right side of the article. You can also
make it a link and define the `alt` HTML attribute.

Go ahead an add an image to the Lunar Resort article, to spice it up a bit. Note
that when adding an image via the web content editor, you can either select the
file from the Documents and Media app or provide it via a URL.

You can also insert a table with as many rows and columns as you see fit. When
clicking inside the table, table editing controls appear. They let you designate
the first row and/or column as table headers, and also enable you to add rows,
columns, and cells. You also have the option to insert a horizontal line, which
is a good seperator between sub-articles or an article and its title. Now you're
familiar with the editor's regular mode.

For those content creators that would rather write in HTML code, the editor also
caters to those individuals. To switch the editor to source view, select the
*Source* icon (![WYSIWYG Source](../../../images/icon-wysiwyg-source.png)). Note that
the regular mode icon (![Regular Mode](../../../images/icon-paint-roller.png))
appears, which you can select to return to regular mode. You also have the
option to switch between a dark and light theme by choosing the moon and sun
icons. The built-in syntax coloring helps you identify HTML elements, regardless
of the mode you're using.

You can even work in a dual pane view that shows your HTML code on the left and
a preview pane on the right. To open this view, click on the *Enlarge* icon
(![Enlarge](../../../images/icon-enlarge.png)). You can arrange the HTML and
preview panes horizonally or vertically. You can also hide the preview pane, if
preferred.

![Figure 4: You can view how your HTML would render by using the preview pane.](../../../images/web-content-editor-html.png)

Every 25 seconds, the entry you're creating is automatically saved as a draft.
Because of this, you never have to worry about losing your work if something
unforeseen happens in your browser or on your computer. You can exit the
enlarged editor by clicking the *Done* button at the bottom of the screen.

Add a few short sentences announcing the grand opening of the Lunar Resort. The
content can be localized in whatever language you want. You'll learn more about
localizing your content later on.

You can integrate @product@ with external services to enable additional
functionality. For example, if you navigate to the Control Panel, click on
*Configuration* &rarr; *Server Administration* &rarr; *External Services*. From
this menu, you can install and enable Xuggler. Enabling Xuggler allows you to
embed audio and video files in web content. Installing and enabling Xuggler is
easy; you can do it right from the Control Panel. Please refer to the
[Publishing Files](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-files)
article of this guide for more details.

Once Xuggler has been installed and enabled, embedding audio or video files in a
web content article is easy. By default the current WYSIWYG editor (AlloyEditor)
does not provide audio/video files. You can extend the default AlloyEditor by
adding an audio/video button. You can learn about doing this in the
[WYSIWYG Editors](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/wysiwyg-editors)
tutorials section. Another option you have is changing the WYSIWYG editor to one
that supports embedding audio/video files in web content. The CKEditor, for
example, is an editor that provides this functionality. To use the CKEditor,
create a `portal-ext.properties` file in your @product@ root folder and add the
following property:

    editor.wysiwyg.portal-impl.portlet.ddm.text_html.ftl=ckeditor

Once you restart your Liferay instance, the AlloyEditor is replaced with the
CKEditor and you have the ability to add audio/video files!

Place your cursor in the editor and select the audio/video button and then
choose the file you'd like to insert. If you haven't already uploaded the audio
or video file to your Liferay instance, you'll need to navigate to *Documents
and Media* in the Content section and upload the file to Liferay. Select the
file and then check that the audio or video component appears in the web
content. Excellent! When your web content is published, users can view or listen
to the embedded multimedia!

![Figure 5: If you've installed and enabled Xuggler from the *Server Administration* &rarr; *External Tools* section of the Control Panel, you can add audio and video to your web content!](../../../images/web-content-audio-video.png)

You can also download the web content article in XML format by clicking the
*Options* icon (![Options](../../../images/icon-options.png)) from the top right
corner of the screen and selecting *View Source*. This button is available on
the Edit Web Content screen, after you've created your web content article.

![Figure 6: The *View Source* button is available from the *Options* button.](../../../images/web-content-download.png)

An XML version of an article is essential when creating content for themes using
the [Resources Importer](https://dev.liferay.com/participate/liferaypedia/-/wiki/Main/Resources+Importer).
If you'd like to learn more about importing web content with a theme, visit its
dedicated [tutorial](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/importing-resources-with-your-themes).

<!-- Update links above for 7.0, when available. -Cody -->

The bottom menu of the New Web Content form provides options for customizing
your web content.

![Figure 7: New web content can be customized in various ways using the menu located below the WYSIWYG editor.](../../../images/wcm-menu.png)

**Structure and Template:** lets you customize the web content article's
structure and template. To learn more about web content structures and
templates, visit the [Designing Uniform Content](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/designing-uniform-content)
section.

**Small Image:** sets the image that is used for the web content article's
previews. For example, when viewing an article in the Web Content library, the
small image is displayed as the article's icon.

**Metadata:** let you set the organizational hierarchy of the web content
article by selecting tags, categories, and priority. To learn more about tags
and categories, visit the
[Organizing Content with Tags and Categories](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/organizing-content-with-tags-and-categories)
section.

**Schedule:** customizes the date and time your content publishes and/or
expires. To learn more about scheduling content, visit the
[Scheduling Web Content Publication](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/scheduling-web-content-publication)
section.

**Display Page:** lets you determine where the web contents are displayed when
linked from other pages. The Canonical URL can be used here. The Canonical URL
is unique for articles that redirect the visitor to the article's default
display page.

Imagine you have a newspaper with a sports section and a technology section. You
add a Sports page and a Tech page to your site, each one with a specific banner
and look and feel. You want the articles to appear in the appropriate pages, but
you know in @product@, articles are not related to pages. You can add an article
as often as you like in different web content display apps or in configured
Asset Publishers. But if you have a *View in context* link, where will you show
your article? This is where you'd use a default display page. Articles that have
a default display page defined are shown with other related articles in the same
display page.

Imagine you have 100 sports articles and 100 tech articles. Instead of needing
to create a page for each article to show it, you can have only one sports page
and one tech page, and can show all articles in one place in a consistent
fashion. You'll work through an example of creating a display page in the
[Creating a Display Page](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-basic-web-content#creating-a-display-page)
sub-section.

**Related Assets:** lets you determine content relationships between the web
content article and other assets in your Liferay instance, even if they don't
share any tags and aren't in the same category. You can connect your content to
a Blogs Entry, Message Boards Message, Web Content, Calendar Event, Bookmarks
Entry, Documents and Media Document, Wiki Page, etc. To learn more about
defining content relationships and publishing links to those related assets,
visit the
[Defining Content Relationships](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/defining-content-relationships)
section.

![Figure 8: This blog entry has links to three Related Assets: one web content and two message board entries.](../../../images/related-assets-link.png)

**Permissions:** customizes who has access to the content. By default, content
is viewable by Anyone (Guest Role). You can limit viewable permissions by
selecting any Role from the drop-down or in the list. Additionally, @product@
provides the ability to customize permissions in more detail. Select the *More
Options* link below the drop down button and you'll find the different
activities you can grant or deny to your web content article.

Before you display your web content, you'll learn how to localize it to cater to
different language speaking users.

### Localizing Web Content [](id=localizing-web-content)

When you create a new piece of web content, you have the ability to choose a
default language. At the top of the New Web Content screen, you'll see options
to change the default language and add a translation. If you click *Change*, you
can select your default language from a large number of languages @product@
supports.

![Figure 9: You have many translation languages to choose from for your web content.](../../../images/web-content-default-language.png)

After you click *Add Translation*, you can select a language by scrolling
through the list. When you select a language, an *Available Translations* list
is rendered and the language you selected is highlighted. The new web content
form enables you to translate the original web content into the selected
language. Once you are done with the translation, click *Publish* and the
translation is added to the list of *Available Translations*.

![Figure 10: The Available Translations list lets you easily survey the current translations for the article.](../../../images/web-content-translation.png)

You can modify the language translation list by inserting `locales.enabled=`
followed by your preferred languages in your `portal-ext.properties` file. For
example, `locales.enabled=ar_SA,nl_NL,hi_IN` offers *Arabic (Saudi Arabia)*,
*Dutch (Netherlands)*, and *Hindi (India)*.

+$$$

**Warning:** If you switch your site's default language (e.g., via friendly
URL), but do not have the necessary translations for localizable fields, your
site's language values will be used from the old default language. Therefore,
you should change the default language of your site *only* when you have
translated values for all localizable entities. Otherwise, you may not be in
control of what language is displayed in your Liferay instance.

$$$

The ability to completely delete a translation in one step is also available.
Instead of disabling a translation or having to go through a multistep
process to remove it, you can select the Delete button (`X`) next to the
translation to delete it.

When you create a new web content structure, each field you create has a
*Localizable* checkbox displayed next to it. This enables you to control what
can and can't be changed in the translation process. For example, if you don't
want images or content titles to be changed when the content is translated, you
can make sure those fields aren't listed as localizable. When you follow the
steps above to localize content, only fields within the structure that had the
*Localizable* box checked appear within the translation window.

Next, you'll begin creating a display page to show your web content.

### Creating a Display Page [](id=creating-a-display-page)

There are two ways of creating a display page. You can use a *Content Display
Page* template, which automatically creates everything you need, or you can
create one manually. The Content Display Page template is found under *Page
Templates* in the Sites section of the Control Panel.

To create a display page manually, add an Asset Publisher to a page. Then make
it the Default Asset Publisher for the page. This defines this Asset Publisher
as the one that displays the content if several Asset Publishers are on the same
page. Set this up by clicking *Configuration* on your Asset Publisher. Under the
*Setup* tab, navigate to *Display Settings* and check the checkbox labeled *Set
as the Default Asset Publisher for This Page*.

Once you've given an article its default display page, links to the article
redirect the user to its default display page. To see how this works, add an
Asset Publisher to another page, like the Home page of the newspaper, and
configure it to *View in Context*. This setting is found in the *Asset Link
Behavior* menu under Display Settings. If you click on the link, you'll be
redirected to the Default Display Page of the article.

You now see that the link looks something like this:

    www.lunar-resort.com/lunar-article

This is an example of a canonical URL, and it's a nice enhancement for Search
Engine Optimization (SEO) because the article's URL becomes the page URL. To a
search engine that's crawling your site, this means that the location of your
article never changes. Also, if you decide to use the content on another page in
the future, the article is still available at this URL. This feature is used in
search results, in related assets, and in Asset Publishers. For more information
on Liferay's Display Pages, see the
[Content Display Pages](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-assets#content-display-pages)
article.

For this piece of web content, you don't need to change anything. After you're
finished with permissions, click *Save as Draft*. This saves the content in
draft form. Once you're satisfied with your changes, select *Publish*. This
makes the content available for display, but you still have some work to do to
enable users to see it. In Liferay WCM, all content resides in a container,
which is the Web Content Display app. You'll look at how it works next.

## Displaying Web Content [](id=displaying-web-content)

Now that you've created and published your first piece of web content for
the Lunar Resort, it's time to display it. First, add the *Web Content Display*
application to your Welcome page by selecting the *Add* button
(![Add](../../../images/icon-control-menu-add.png)) from the top Control Menu
and selecting the *Applications* tab. In the search field, type *Web Content
Display*.

![Figure 11: Add the Web Content Display app to a page to begin displaying your new web content article.](../../../images/add-web-content-display.png)

Once the application appears, drag it to the position on the page where you want
your content to appear. You can have as many Web Content Display apps on a page
as you need, which gives you the power to lay out your content exactly the way
you want it. 

To add existing web content, click the *Select Web Content* button on the lower
left of the app. Click the *Select* button from the menu to choose the article
you'd like to display. You have several options here.

Naturally, if your content appears in the list, you can simply select it. If
there is lots of published content available, you could search for the content
by title, description, user name, or site (click the dropdown arrow to see all
the options).

Once you've selected the web content article, you're able to choose the User
Tools and Content Metadata to be published in the Web Content Display app. These
two entities have the following options to choose from, by default:

- **User Tools**
    - *Translations*
    - *Print*
- **Content Metadata**
    - *Related Assets*
    - *Ratings*
    - *Comments*
    - *Comment Ratings*

One of the many options is *Translations*, which shows the available locales for
your content. If you're working on the page for a particular language, you can
select the translation of your content that goes with your locale. To learn more
about translating your content, visit the
[Localizing Web Content](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-basic-web-content#localizing-web-content)
sub-section.

![Figure 12: Publishing web content is a snap. At a minimum, you only have to select the content you wish to publish. You can also enable lots of optional features to let your users interact with your content.](../../../images/web-content-choosing-web-content.png)

If you have enabled OpenOffice.org integration with your Liferay instance, you
can also enable document conversion for your content. This gives your users the
ability to download your content in their format of choice. This is especially
handy if you are running a research or academically oriented site; users can
very quickly download PDFs of your content for their research projects. These
conversion options will be available under the *User Tools* list.

+$$$

**Note:** To enable OpenOffice integration in your Liferay instance, navigate to
the Control Panel &rarr; *Configuration* &rarr; *Server Administration* &rarr;
*External Services* and select the *Enabled* checkbox for enabling OpenOffice
integration.

$$$

Note that you also have other options, such as enabling a Print button, enabling
ratings so users can rate the content, enabling comments, and enabling ratings
on comments.

The Print button pops the content up in a separate browser window that contains
just the content, without any of the web site navigation. This is handy for
printing the content. Enabling ratings shows one of two ratings interfaces
@product@ has: five stars or thumbs up and thumbs down. This can be set globally
in the `portal-ext.properties` file. See the
[Properties Document](https://docs.liferay.com/portal/7.0/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html#Ratings%20Tag%20Library)
for more details about this.

Enabling comments creates a discussion forum attached to your content which
users can use to discuss your content. Enabling ratings on comments gives your
users the ability to rate the comments. By default, guests are not allowed to
leave comments on web content. If you'd like to allow guests to comment on your
web content article, navigate to the Control Panel &rarr; *Users* &rarr; *Roles*
and select *Guest* &rarr; *Define Permissions*. From the left menu, select *Site
Administration* &rarr; *Content* &rarr; *Web Content*. The navigate down to the
Web Content Article heading and select the *Add Discussion* checkbox. Guests are
now able to post comments on your web content article!

You may decide you want one, some, or none of these features, which is why
they're all implemented as simple selector buttons to be enabled or disabled at
need. Once you've selected the features you want to include in your Web Content
Display spp, click the *Save* button. You can now close the configuration
window.

To publish new content, select the *Add* icon
(![Add](../../../images/icon-app-add.png)) from the app's top panel and select
the type of article you'd like to add (e.g., Basic Web Content). This launches
the same full-featured editor you've already seen in the Menu, which lets you
add and edit content in place as you are working on your page.

This is another example of the flexibility that @product@ offers. At times, you
may want to add content directly into the Web Content Display app of the page
you're managing, especially if you are in the process of building the page. At
other times, you may want to navigate to Site Administration to create content,
because at that moment you're more concerned with the creation of the content
and not where the content will later be displayed. Liferay WCM supports both
processes. 

Editing content that's already been published is just as easy as creating new
content is. Once the content is displayed--whether you've selected content or
created it in the Web Content Display app--you can edit the content directly
from the Web Content Display app or from Site Administration. To edit it from
the Web Content Display app, select the *Options* button
(![Options](../../../images/icon-app-options.png)) from the app's top panel
and select the approriate edit action. For example, selecting the *Edit Web
Content* button launches the WYSIWYG editor and from there you can make any
necessary changes. You can also select the *Edit Template* button, which
launches the template editor for the web content article's template.

![Figure 13: You can select and edit an article, or edit its template directly from the Web Content Display app.](../../../images/web-content-display-icons.png)

There are instances where you've edited your web content article many times, and
you'd be interested in viewing the article's evolution. To view an article's
history, navigate to *Web Content* from the Menu. Then select the article's
*Actions* icon (![Actions](../../../images/icon-actions.png)) and select *View
History*. From this menu, you can view all the article's versions and
modified/display dates. Another cool feature is the web content Diff tool, which
lets you compare versions of the article and highlight the differences between
the two. Of course, you must have more than two versions of the article for this
feature to be available. Click the *Actions* icon again next to a version of the
article you'd like to compare and select *Compare to...*. Then select the other
article you want to compare. The tool provides color coded highlighting to
emphasize additions and deletions between the two articles.

![Figure 14: Comparing web content articles is a great feature to use during the Workflow process.](../../../images/web-content-diff-feature.png)

When you publish updates to a web content article that's already being displayed
somewhere in your Liferay instance (e.g., in a Web Content Display app or an
Asset Publisher app), the content is immediately updated (unless, of course, you
have a workflow enabled, which is discussed in greater detail in the
[Using Workflow](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/using-workflow) section).
It makes no difference whether you edit it from a Web Content Display app, from
the Asset Publisher, or from the Site Administration interface.

+$$$ 

**Note:** If you're using a mobile device or tablet and you'd like to view your
page the way your users will see it (i.e., without all the app controls and
icons), go up to the top Control Menu and select the *Edit Controls* icon
(![Edit Controls](../../../images/icon-edit-controls.png)). This makes all those
extra controls you see as a Liferay administrator disappear. You'll also notice
the icon is crossed out when the Edit Controls are disabled. If you need to use
the controls again, just select the icon again to return to the original format.

This button is not displayed when viewing the page from a desktop computer.
This is because apps displayed from a desktop computer hide their controls by
default, and can be rendered by hovering over the app. To test out your page
from different devices, select the *Simulation* button
(![Simulation](../../../images/icon-simulation.png)) from the right corner of
the top Control Menu.

$$$

As an administrator, you may want to monitor what changes are being made to your
site's web content without implementing a workflow process. To keep tabs on
what's going on with your site's web content, you can subscribe to
articles and folders. To do this, select the checkbox next to the web content
entities you'd like to monitor. Then click the *Information* icon
(![Information](../../../images/icon-information.png)) and select the *Subscribe*
icon (![Subscribe](../../../images/icon-star.png)). Now whenever a web content
article or folder is modified, you'll receive an email to your account's
configured email address notifiying you of a change. To learn more about
configuring your email in @product@, visit the
[Instance Settings](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/instance-settings)
section. You can navigate to your Web Content menu's *Options* icon
(![Options](../../../images/icon-options.png)) and select *Configuration* to
modify your Web Content email notification settings.

![Figure 15: Click the Subscribe icon in the web content entity's *Information* menu to begin receiving web content notifications.](../../../images/web-content-subscribe.png)

That's pretty much all there is to simple content creation. Whole sites have
been created this way. But if you want to take advantage of the full power of
@product@'s WCM, you'll want to use structures and templates. You'll cover these
topics next.
