# Mentioning Users [](id=mentioning-users)

Have you ever wanted to include another user in a discussion on the Message
Boards? Have you ever wanted to give kudos to a colleague in content you're
writing? You can mention (notify and/or draw attention to) other users by 
entering the `@` character in front of each user's user name. 

When you mention a user, the user receives a site notification next to the
user's profile icon and an email, alerting the user with a link to the content.
You can mention users in a blog entry, a message boards post, or comments in any 
app that supports comments. A mention also links to the user's home page, so 
readers can find out more about that user. 

![Figure 1: As you enter a user name after the `@` character, links to users that match the text you enter are displayed. Select the user you want to mention and publish your content.](../../../images/mentions-at-mention-menu.png)

A selector appears after entering the `@` character, listing users that match 
the name you're entering. In the selector, users are represented by their 
profile picture, name, and user name. Click the user you want to mention and 
finish editing your content. 

On publishing the content, mentioned users receive a notification next to their 
profile picture and an email, informing them that they've been mentioned. The 
notification and email indicate the author's name and content type, and it links 
to the content. 

![Figure 2: The number of notifications a user has appear in a badge on the user's profile.](../../../images/mentions-count-near-profile-image.png)

![Figure 3: When you click the notifications number next to your profile picture, your Notifications List appears.](../../../images/mentions-notification-list.png)

Mentions are enabled by the Mentions app, which is a part of the Collaboration 
Suite. By default, the Mentions app is enabled globally. However, you can 
enable/disable it globally or per site. For a site to use Mentions, it must be 
enabled for the site's Virtual Instance. 

To access the global Mentions settings for your Virtual Instance, open the 
*Menu*
(![Menu](../../../images/icon-menu.png)), navigate to *Control Panel* &rarr;
*Configuration* &rarr; *Instance Settings*, click the *Social* tab, and expand
the *Mentions* section. 

![Figure 4: From Instance Settings in the Control Panel, you can enable or disable the Mentions feature for all of the Virtual Instance's sites.](../../../images/mentions-global-instance-setting.png)

By default, all users are allowed to mention fellow site members and friends. To 
fine tune these options, select *Define Mentions Capability for Users* and 
specify the settings you want. 

For Mentions to be available for a site, the app must be enabled for a site's 
Virtual Instance. Site administrators can enable or disable Mentions for a site. 
A site's Mentions app configuration is accessible from
within the *Menu* 
(![Menu](../../../images/icon-menu.png)). Once in the menu,
navigate to *Site Name* &rarr; *Configuration* &rarr; *Site Settings*. In the
*Social* tab, expand the *Mentions* section. Enable or disable mentions via the 
toggle labeled *Allow Users to Mention Other Users*. 

![Figure 5: Mentions can also be enabled or disabled per site.](../../../images/mentions-site-setting.png)
