# Localizing Your Application [](id=localizing-your-application)

If you're writing a Liferay Application, you're probably a genius who is also
really cool. Which means your application is going to be used throughout the
entire world. At least, it will if the messages that appear to its users can be
translated into their language. Thankfully, Liferay makes it easy to support
translation of your application's language keys.

+$$$

**Note:** Even if you don't think your application needs to be translated into
multiple languages, use the localization pattern presented here for any messages
displayed in your user interface. It's much easier to change the messages by
updating a language properties file than by finding every instance of a message
and replacing it in your JSPs and Java classes.

$$$

You just need to create a default language properties file
(`Language.properties`) and one for each translation you'd like to support (for
example, `Language_fr.properties` for your French translation), and put them in
the correct location in your application. Use the two letter locale that
corresponds to the language you want to translate in your file names (for example,
`Language_es.properties` provides a Spanish translation for each key).

<!-- Discuss adding a new locale? -->

## What are Language Keys? [](id=what-are-language-keys)

Each language property file holds key/value pairs. The key is the same in all
the language property files, while the value is translated in each file. You
specify the key in your user interface code, and the appropriately translated
message is returned automatically for your users, depending on the locale being
used in Liferay. If you have Liferay running locally, append the URL with a
supported locale to see how Liferay's language keys are translated (for example,
enter `localhost:8080/es`).

![Figure 1: Append the locale to your running Liferay's URL and see Liferay's translation power in action.](../../images/locale-message-spain.png)

Language keys are just keys you'll use in place of a hard coded, fully
translated String value in your user interface code. For example, you can use a
language key in your JSP via a `<liferay-ui:message />` tag. 

The tag might be set up like this if you're not considering the need to
translate your application's messages:

    <liferay-ui:message key="Howdy, Partner!" />

In that case you'll get a properly capitalized and punctuated message in your
application.

Alternatively, you can specify a simple key instead of the final value:

    <liferay-ui:message key="howdy-partner" />

That way you can provide a translation of the key in a default language
properties file (`Language.properties`):

    howdy-partner=Howdy, Partner!

You'll get the same output in your application with either method above, but you
have the flexibility to add additional language properties files that provide
translations for your application's keys if you use the language properties
approach. Use a key in your UI code, then provide the value (or translation) in
your language properties file. You just need to make sure there's a locale that
corresponds to your translation.

The values from your default `Language.properties` file will appear if no locale
is specified. If a locale is specified, Liferay will try to find a file that
corresponds to the locale. For example, if a Spanish translation is sought, a
`Language_es.properties` file must be present to provide the proper values. If
it isn't, the default language properties (from the `Language.properties` file)
will be used.

## What Locales are Available By Default? [](id=what-locales-are-available-by-default)

There are a bunch of locales available by default in Liferay. Look in the
`portal.properties` file
[file](@platform-ref@/7.0-latest/propertiesdoc/portal.properties.html#Languages%20and%20Time%20Zones)
to find them.

    locales=ar_SA,eu_ES,bg_BG,ca_AD,ca_ES,zh_CN,zh_TW,hr_HR,cs_CZ,da_DK,nl_NL,
        nl_BE,en_US,en_GB,en_AU,et_EE,fi_FI,fr_FR,fr_CA,gl_ES,de_DE,el_GR,
        iw_IL,hi_IN,hu_HU,in_ID,it_IT,ja_JP,ko_KR,lo_LA,lt_LT,nb_NO,fa_IR,
        pl_PL,pt_BR,pt_PT,ro_RO,ru_RU,sr_RS,sr_RS_latin,sl_SI,sk_SK,es_ES,
        sv_SE,tr_TR,uk_UA,vi_VN

To provide a translation for one of these locales, specify the locale in the
file name where the translated keys will be (for example,
`Langauge_es.properties` holds the Spanish translation).

## Where do I Put Language Files? [](id=where-do-i-put-language-files)

In an application with only one module that holds all your application's views
(for example, all its JSPs) and portlet components, just create a
`src/main/resources/content` folder in that module, and place your
`Language.properties` and `Language_xx.properties` files there.

After that, make sure any portlet components (the `@Component` annotation
in your `-Portlet` classes) in the module include this property:

    "javax.portlet.resource-bundle=content.Language"

Providing translated language properties files and specifying the
`javax.portlet.resource-bundle` property in your portlet component is all you
need to do to have your language keys translated. Then, when the locale is
changed in @product@, your application's language keys will be automatically
translated.

In a more complicated, well-modularized application, you might have language
keys spread over multiple modules providing portlet components and JSP files.
Moreover, there might be a fair number of duplicated language keys between the
modules. Thankfully you don't need to maintain language properties files in each
module.

## Creating a Language Module [](id=creating-a-language-module)

If you're crazy about modularity (and you should be), you might have an
application with multiple modules that provide the view layer. These modules are
often called web modules.

    my-application/
        my-application-web/
        my-admin-application-web/
        my-application-content-web/
        my-application-api/
        my-application-service/

Each of these modules can have language keys and translations to maintain, and
there will probably be duplicate keys. You don't want to end up with different
values for the same key, and you don't want to maintain language keys in
multiple places. In this case, you need to go even crazier with modularity and
create a new module, which we'll call a language module.

In the root project directory (the one that holds your service, API, and web
modules), [create a new
module](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/starting-module-development#creating-a-module)
to hold your app's language keys. For example, here's the folder structure of a
language module called `my-application-lang`.

    my-application-lang/
        bnd.bnd
        src/
            main/
                resources/
                    content/
                        Language.properties
                        Language_ar.properties
                        Language_bg.properties
                        ...

In the language module, create a `src/main/resources/content` folder. Put your
language properties files here. A `Language.properties` file might look like
this: 

    application=My Application
    add-entity=Add Entity

Create any translations you want, adding the translation locale ID to the
language file name. File `Language_es.properties` might look like this: 

    my-app-title=Mi Aplicación
    add-entity=Añadir Entity

On
[deploying](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/starting-module-development#building-and-deploying-a-module)
the language module, @product@'s `ResourceBundleLoaderAnalyzerPlugin` detects
the `content/Language.properties` file and adds a resource bundle
[*capability*](http://blog.osgi.org/2015/12/using-requirements-and-capabilities.html)
to the module. A capability is a contract a module declares to @product@'s OSGi
framework. Capabilities let you associate services with modules that provide
them. In this case, @product@ registers a
[ResourceBundleLoader](@platform-ref@/7.0-latest/javadocs/portal-kernel/com/liferay/portal/kernel/util/ResourceBundleLoader.html)
service for the resource bundle capability. 

Next, you'll configure a web module to use the language module resource
bundle. 

## Using a Language Module [](id=using-a-language-module)

A module can use a language module's resource bundle loader by declaring it as a
required capability and declaring the language module's resource bundle as its
own. 

Follow these steps to configure a web module to use a language module resource
bundle.

1.  Open the web module's `bnd.bnd` file and add a `Require-Capability` header
    that filters on the language module's resource bundle capability. For
    example, if the language module's symbolic name is
    `com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.lang`, you'd specify the requirement like this: 

        Require-Capability: liferay.resource.bundle;filter:="(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.lang)"

2.  In the `bnd.bnd`, add a `Provide-Capability` header that adds the language
    module's resource bundle as this module's own resource bundle:

        Provide-Capability: liferay.resource.bundle;resource.bundle.aggregate:String="(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.my.editor.lang)";resource.bundle.base.name="content.Language"

It might seem a bit strange that the resource bundle aggregate has only one
bundle. Grouping together multiple resource bundles comes into play when you
want to use your module's own resource bundle *in addition to* a language module
resource bundle. 

For example, you might want to compliment language module keys with
module-specific keys or override language module keys with your own. This
requires aggregating both modules' resource bundles and prioritizing your
module's resource bundle higher than the language module's. The following
example demonstrates this. 

For example, a web module called `com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web` uses
keys from language module `com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.lang`, but overrides some
of them. The web module's `Provide-Capability` and `Web-ContextPath` OSGi
headers accomplish this.

    Provide-Capability:\
    liferay.resource.bundle;resource.bundle.base.name:String="(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web)";resource.bundle.base.name="content.Language",\
    liferay.resource.bundle;resource.bundle.aggregate:String="(&(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web)(!(aggregate=true))),(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.lang)";bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web;resource.bundle.base.name="content.Language";service.ranking:Long="1";aggregate=true;\
    servlet.context.name=my-admin-application-web

    Web-ContextPath:/my-admin-application-web

Each line is explained:

1.  The first `Provide-Capability` line declares the web module's resource
    bundle. This module's bundle symbolic name is
    `com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web`. 

        liferay.resource.bundle;resource.bundle.base.name:String="(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web)";resource.bundle.base.name="content.Language",\

2.  The second `Provide-Capability` line aggregates the web module resource
    bundle and the language module resource bundle, prioritizing the web module
    resource bundle over the language module resource bundle.

        liferay.resource.bundle;resource.bundle.aggregate:String="(&(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web)(!(aggregate=true))),(bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.lang)";bundle.symbolic.name=com.liferay.docs.l10n.myapp.admin.web;resource.bundle.base.name="content.Language";service.ranking:Long="1";aggregate=true;\

3.  The last `Provide-Capability` line and the `Web-ContextPath` line provide
    the web module's servlet context name and the web context path respectively.
    @product@ uses them to make the aggregated resource bundle available to the
    web module's JSPs automatically. 

        servlet.context.name=my-admin-application-web

        Web-ContextPath:/my-admin-application-web

To aggregate web module keys and language module keys, follow the pattern
demonstrated by the example above. The example language module and web modules
can be downloaded [here](https://dev.liferay.com/documents/10184/656312/l10n-my-application.zip/3bf58646-95ba-4031-bd1a-ce52cc6152f3). 

Now you can add language properties files to your Liferay development toolbox,
to provide translation of your application's user interface messages. But you
don't need to translate every single key yourself: you can use keys that you
share with @product@'s core. 

## Using @product@'s Language Properties [](id=using-liferays-language-properties)

If you have @product@'s source code, you can check out @product@'s core language
properties by looking in the `portal-impl/src/main/content` folder. Otherwise,
you can look in the `portal-impl.jar` that's in your Liferay bundle.

    liferay-portal/portal-impl/src/content/Language_xx.properties

    [Liferay Home]/tomcat-[version]/webapps/ROOT/WEB-INF/lib/portal-impl.jar

These keys are available at runtime, so when you use any of @product@'s default
keys in your user interface code, they're automagically swapped out for the
appropriately translated value. Using @product@'s keys where possible saves you
time and ensures that your application follows Liferay's UI conventions.

If you want to generate language files for each supported locale automatically,
or to configure your application to generate translations automatically using
the Microsoft Translator API, check out the tutorial
[Automatically Generating Language Files](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/automatically-generating-language-files).
