# Writing an Android App for @product@ [](id=writing-an-android-app-for-product)

Users expect to access @product@ content from their mobile devices. As an 
intrepid developer, you naturally want to turn these expectations into reality. 
Thankfully, Liferay provides a way for your mobile apps to access @product@ 
content and applications with 
[Liferay Screens](https://www.liferay.com/supporting-products/liferay-screens)! 
Screens contains native components called *Screenlets* that can call @product@'s 
remote services and display the results in your app. Each Screenlet comes 
complete with its own fully pluggable UI that you can customize to your liking. 
Although the Screenlets included with Screens only work with @product@'s 
built-in remote services, you can write your own Screenlets that work with your 
custom portlets' remote services. 

If you're an experienced Android developer but need a start-to-finish guide on 
how to integrate Android apps with @product@, you're in the right place. This 
Learning Path walks you through the creation of an Android app that interacts 
with the Guestbook portlet developed in the 
[Developing a Web Application](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/developing-a-web-application) 
Learning Path. Since this is a custom portlet, you'll write your own Screenlets 
that let your app retrieve and display guestbooks and their entries. 

You should note that although this Learning Path provides complete code snippets 
of the app, not every aspect of Android development is explained in detail. 
Focus is instead placed on the code that leverages Liferay Screens. Therefore, 
you **must** have significant Android development experience before attempting 
this Learning Path. Otherwise, you'll likely be confused. Google provides 
extensive documentation of the Android APIs as well as some basic tutorials on 
[developer.android.com](http://developer.android.com/index.html). 

Experience in Android development is all you need to start working. You needn't 
have completed the Liferay MVC Learning Path to obtain a working Guestbook 
portlet. The complete Guestbook portlet's modules are provided for installation 
into your local @product@ instance. 

Now that you know what you'll be doing here, it's time to move on to the first
series of articles: Beginning Android Development for @product@. These articles 
walk you through the steps required to get started developing an Android app 
that interacts with @product@. 
