# Other Wiki Widgets [](id=other-wiki-widgets)

The widgets that accompany the main Wiki widget help you display and navigate 
particular wiki nodes. The following widgets are available: 

-   **Page Menu:** Displays a single wiki page's outgoing links.
-   **Tree Menu:** Displays a wiki's page hierarchy as a tree.
-   **Wiki Display:** Displays a single wiki node.

You can find these widgets in the *Add* 
(![Add](../../../../images/icon-control-menu-add.png)) &rarr; *Widgets* &rarr; 
*Wiki* menu. 

## Page Menu [](id=page-menu)

The Page Menu widget displays a wiki page's outgoing links. It answers the 
question, "What wiki pages can I access from this page?" After adding the Page 
Menu widget to a site page, you must set the wiki page it displays links from. 
Follow these steps to do so: 

1.  Click the widget's *Options* icon 
    (![Options](../../../../images/icon-app-options.png)) and select 
    *Configuration*. 

2.  In the configuration's *Setup* tab, choose the wiki node then click *Save*. 

3.  Still in the configuration's *Setup* tab, select the wiki page then click 
    *Save* and close the configuration dialog. 

When you click a Page Menu link, the site page's Wiki or Wiki Display widget 
displays the wiki page associated with that link. 

![Figure 1: The Page Menu widget displays a wiki page's outgoing links.](../../../../images/wiki-page-menu.png)

## Tree Menu [](id=tree-menu)

The Tree Menu widget displays a wiki's page hierarchy as a tree that lets you 
navigate all the wiki's pages. Much like the Page Menu setup, you configure 
the Tree Menu widget to focus on a wiki node. You can also configure how deep 
users can navigate into the page hierarchy. You can set the *Depth* to a value 
from 1 to 5, or select *All* to allow navigation to all of the wiki node's 
pages. 

Follow these steps to configure the Tree Menu widget after adding it to a site 
page:

1.  Click the widget's *Options* icon 
    (![Options](../../../../images/icon-app-options.png)) and select 
    *Configuration*. 

2.  In the configuration's *Setup* tab, choose the wiki node then select the 
    depth of wiki pages to display in the hierarchy. 

3.  Click *Save* and close the configuration dialog. 

In the Tree Menu, folder icons represent parent wiki pages and document icons
represent child wiki pages at the end of the nodes. When you click a parent wiki 
page or child wiki page, the Wiki or Wiki Display widgets on the site page 
display the respective wiki page.

![Figure 2: The Tree Menu widget displays a wiki node's hierarchy to the configured depth.](../../../../images/wiki-tree-menu.png)

## Wiki Display [](id=wiki-display)

The Wiki Display widget lets you focus user attention on one wiki node. After 
adding the widget to a page, follow these steps to configure it:

1.  Click the widget's *Options* icon 
    (![Options](../../../../images/icon-app-options.png)) and select 
    *Configuration*. 

2.  In the configuration's *Setup* tab, choose the wiki node then click *Save*. 

3.  Still in the configuration's *Setup* tab, select the wiki page then click 
    *Save* and close the configuration dialog. This page serves as the entry 
    point for the wiki. 

The configuration options and user interface for the Wiki Display are almost
identical to that of the Wiki widget. 
