# Blogs Analytics [](id=blogs-analytics)

[Blogs Entries](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/publishing-blogs) 
are important content on websites. They attract readers who return to view new
blog posts and interact in discussion.

Analytics Cloud gives you important insights into how engaged readers are with
your blog posts.

![Figure 1: By default, Blogs are listed in descending order of Views.](../../images/assets-blogs.png)

## Visitor Behavior [](id=visitor-behavior)

The Overview tab of an Asset's detail presents several data presentations. The
first chart, called Visitor Behavior, contains five important metrics:

- Total Views
- Average Reading time
- Total Shares
- Total Comments
- Average Rating

![Figure 2: The Visitors Behavior chart contains important trend lines.](../../images/assets-blogs-vb.png)

### Views [](id=views)

The Views plot shows the trend-line for the number of times a Blogs Entry was
viewed each day (or hour, if *Yesterday* or *Last 24 Hours* are selected).

### Reading Time [](id=reading-time)

Reading Time is the average reading time per view of a Blogs Entry. The daily
(or hourly, if *Yesterday* or *Last 24 Hours* are selected) average reading time
per view is plotted for the time period.

### Shares [](id=shares)

The count of total Shares per day is plotted to establish the Shares trend-line.

### Comments [](id=comments)

The Comments trend-line plots the total number of comments on a Blogs Entry per
day (or hour, if *Yesterday* or *Last 24 Hours* are selected) over the selected
time period.

### Rating [](id=rating)

[Readers can rate blogs.](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/displaying-blogs). 
Whether the rating is a simple Thumb Up/Thumbs Down, or a Stars rating (0-5
Stars), the Rating in Analytics Cloud lets you compare Blog posts to each other.
A Blog post announcing Free Swag may have a higher rating than a Blog post
announcing that prices are increasing. The rating is reported as a number out of
10.

<!-- todo: get more detail from the devs -->

## Views by Segment [](id=views-by-segment)

Scroll down from the Visitor Behavior chart to see the Views by Segment bar
graph, which is present for all Asset types and Pages.

The Views by Segment bar graph shows how many times the Asset was viewed by up
to the top seven Segments over the selected time period. If more than seven
Segments viewed the Asset, the top six appear, and views by the remaining
Segments are aggregated in the seventh bar on the graph, labeled _X More
Segments_.

![Figure 3: Which Segments are looking at the Asset most frequently?](../../images/assets-vbs.png)

## Views by Location [](id=views-by-location)

View a bubble chart to compare the views by country over the selected period. Up
to the top five countries are displayed, and the sixth bubble is an aggregation
of the remaining countries.

![Figure 4: Which location interacts with the Asset most frequently?](../../images/assets-interaction-location.png)

## Views by Technology [](id=views-by-technology)

View a stacked bar graph of the Page's views by operating system (grouped by
device type) in the default tab.

![Figure 5: What technologies are used to interact with the Asset?](../../images/assets-dm-dbt.png)

Click *Web Browser* to see a donut chart displaying up to the top eight web
browsers over the selected time period. If applicable, remaining web browsers
are aggregated in the ninth donut segment.

## Asset Appears On [](id=asset-appears-on)

The Asset Appears On table includes a Page Name and URL. Like any Page data in
Analytics Cloud, only Pages that were interacted with in some way by site
visitors are tracked and reported. It's important to note that the link
doesn't take you to the actual Page with the Asset on it. Instead, it leads to
the Page Analytics view of the Page. From there you can click the URL to the
actual Page.

![Figure 6: What Pages does the Asset appear on?](../../images/assets-appears-on.png)
