# Web Content Analytics [](id=web-content-analytics)

[Web Content Articles](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/introduction-web-content) 
are important assets for presenting site visitors with information.  Analytics
Cloud gives you important insights into how site users are engaging with your
content.

![Figure 1: By default, Web Content is listed in descending order of Views.](../../images/assets-wc.png)

## Visitor Behavior [](id=visitor-behavior)

The Overview tab of an Asset's detail presents several data presentations. The
first chart, called Visitor Behavior, contains one important metric: total
Views.

![Figure 2: The Visitors Behavior chart contains important trend lines.](../../images/assets-wc-vb.png)

The number of views per day (or hour, if *Yesterday* or *Last 24 Hours* are
selected) is plotted over the selected time period to establish a View trend
line. Use this to evaluate how well the content engages visitors over time.

## Views by Segment [](id=views-by-segment)

Scroll down from the Visitor Behavior chart to see the Views by Segment bar
graph, which is present for all Asset types and Pages.

The Views by Segment bar graph shows how many times the Asset was viewed by up
to the top seven Segments over the selected time period. If more than seven
Segments viewed the Asset, the top six are displayed, and views by the remaining
Segments are aggregated in the seventh bar on the graph, labeled _X More
Segments_.

![Figure 3: Which Segments are looking at the Asset most frequently?](../../images/assets-vbs.png)

## Views by Location [](id=views-by-location)

View a bubble chart to compare the views by country over the selected period. Up
to the top five countries are displayed, and the sixth bubble is an aggregation
of the remaining countries.

![Figure 4: Which location interacts with the Asset most frequently?](../../images/assets-interaction-location.png)

## Views by Technology [](id=views-by-technology)

View a stacked bar graph of the Page's views by operating system (grouped by
device type) in the default tab.

![Figure 5: What technologies are used to interact with the Asset?](../../images/assets-blogs-vbt.png)

Click *Web Browser* to see a donut chart displaying up to the top eight web
browsers over the selected time period. If applicable, remaining web browsers
are aggregated in the ninth donut segment.

## Asset Appears On [](id=asset-appears-on)

The Asset Appears On table includes a Page Name and URL. Like any Page data in
Analytics Cloud, only Pages that were interacted with in some way by site
visitors are tracked and reported. It's important to note that the link
doesn't take you to the actual Page with the Asset on it. Instead, it leads to
the Page Analytics view of the Page. From there you can click the URL to the
actual Page.

![Figure 6: What Pages does the Asset appear on?](../../images/assets-appears-on.png)
