# Your New Home for Analytics [](id=your-new-home-for-analytics)

To get started using Liferay Analytics Cloud, the first thing you need is an
invitation. Liferay invites the Analytics Cloud owner (the person who purchased
the product) to your company's Analytics Cloud project. If you're not the owner
but still need access to the project, ask an Analytics Cloud system
administrator to invite you.

Your invitation links you to the Analytics Cloud sign in page, which prompts you
for your Liferay credentials. Once you've signed in, your company's project
appears. 

![Figure 1: Your project's home page welcomes you to all Analytics Cloud offers.](../../images/home-page-intial.png)

The welcome screen describes and links to each key component page:

**Segments:** Aggregate customers into Segments based on similar profiles and
behavior data. Track Segment growth and discover patterns of interest. Discover
your target audience.

**Individuals:** Learn how individual customers interact with your Sites. View
holistic profiles that combine customer's profile data with their page and asset
interactions for deep insight into their interests. 

**Pages:** Combine path analytics and traditional page analytics to understand
how customers interact with your content. Measure individual web page
performance to improve digital experiences. 

**Assets:** Track and visualize engagement levels of digital assets such as
forms, blogs, web content, documents, and media to ensure that assets are
driving conversions. 

**Data Sources:** Integrate your customer profile and behavior data from
multiple Liferay DXP sites and custom data sources. 

Additional shortcuts and overviews are displayed on the right:

**Add Data Source:** Quick access to adding data sources for customer profiles
and behavior data.

**Usage:** Compares the number of Individuals and Pages you're analyzing to your
Liferay Analytics Cloud Plan. 

**User Management:** Invite users and assign permissions. 

The *Liferay Analytics Cloud* icon 
(![Liferay Analytics Cloud](../../images/icon-analytics-cloud.png)) at the top
of the navigation panel takes you to the home page from wherever you are in the
application. Beneath it are several other links:

**People**: Learn more about your customers by analyzing them individually as
*Individuals* or aggregated as *Segments*. 

**Touchpoints**: Analyze *page* and *asset* performance and view paths users
take to your pages. 

**User icon:** Switch projects or sign out.

**Settings**: Provides options for managing data sources, users, and updating
your Analytics Cloud usage. 

If no data sources are connected, a message near the top of the main area tells
you so and links you to the page for adding data sources. Adding data sources is
next. 
