# Automatic Single Page Applications [](id=automatic-single-page-applications)

A good user experience is the measure of a well-designed site. A user's time is
highly valuable. The last thing you want is for someone to grow frustrated with
your site because of constant page reloads. A Single Page Application (SPA) is
the solution. Single Page Applications drastically cut down on load times by 
loading only a single HTML page that is dynamically updated as the user
interacts and navigates through the site. This provides a native-app experience
by eliminating page loads. In @product@, **SPA is enabled by default
in your apps and sites and requires no changes to your workflow or code!**

This tutorial covers these key topics:

- The benefits of SPAs
- What is SennaJS?
- How to enable SPA in @product@
- How to configure SPA settings
- How to listen to SPA lifecycle events

## The Benefits of SPAs [](id=the-benefits-of-spas)

Let's say you're surfing the web and you find a really rad site that happens to
be SPA enabled. Alright! Page load times are blazin' fast. You're deep into the
site, scrolling along, when you find this great post that just speaks to you.
You copy the URL from the address bar and email it to all of your friends with
the subject: 'Your Life Will Change Forever.' They must experience this
awe-inspiring work! 

You get a response back almost immediately. "This is a rad site, but what post
are you talking about?" it reads. 

"What!? Do my eyes deceive me?" you exclaim. You were in so much of a hurry to
share this life-changing content that you neglected to notice that the URL never
updated when you clicked the post. You click the back button, hoping to get
back to the post, but it takes you to the site you were on before you ever
visited this one. 

What a bummer! "Why? Why have you failed me site?" you cry.

If only there was a way to have a Single Page Application, but also be able to
link to the content you want. Well, don't despair my friend. You can have your
cake and eat it too, thanks to SennaJS.

## What is SennaJS? [](id=what-is-sennajs)

SennaJS is @product@'s SPA engine. SennaJS handles the client-side data, and
AJAX loads the page's content dynamically. While there are other JavaScript
frameworks out there that may provide some of the same features, Senna's only
focus is SPA, ensuring that your site provides the best user experience
possible.

SennaJS provides the following key enhancements to SPA:

**SEO & Bookmarkability**: Sharing or bookmarking a link displays the same
content you are viewing. Search engines are able to index this content.

**Hybrid rendering**: Ajax + server-side rendering lets you disable pushState at
any time, allowing progressive enhancement. You can use your preferred method to
render the server side (e.g. HTML fragments or template views).

**State retention**: Scrolling, reloading, or navigating through the history of
the page takes you back to where you were.

**UI feedback**: The UI indicates to the user when some content is requested.

**Pending navigations**: UI rendering is blocked until data is loaded, and the
content is displayed all at once.

**Timeout detection**: If the request takes too long to load or the user tries
to navigate to a different link while another request is pending, the request
times out.

**History navigation**: The browser history is manipulated via the History API,
so you can use the back and forward history buttons to navigate through the
history of the page.

**Cacheable screens**: Once a surface is loaded, the content is cached in memory
and is retrieved later without any additional request, speeding up your
application.

**Page resources management**: Scripts and stylesheets are evaluated from
dynamically loaded resources. Additional content can be appended to the DOM
using XMLHttpRequest. For security reasons, some browsers won't evaluate
`<script>` tags from content fragments. Therefore, SennaJS extracts scripts from
the content and parses them to ensure that they meet the browser loading
requirements.

You can read more about SennaJS as well as see examples at [http://sennajs.com/](http://sennajs.com/).

Now that you have a better understanding of how SennaJS benefits SPA, you can
learn how to enable and configure options for SPA within @product@ next.

## Enabling SPA [](id=enabling-spa)

Enabling SPA is easy. Deploy `com.liferay.frontend.js.spa.web-[version]` module
deployed and enabled, and you're all set to use SPA. Since this module is
included with @product@ by default, you shouldn't have to do anything. 

**SPA is enabled by default in your apps and sites, and requires no changes to 
your workflow or existing code!**

Next you can learn how to customize SPA settings to meet your own needs.

## Customizing SPA Settings [](id=customizing-spa-settings)

Depending on what behaviors you need to customize, you can configure SPA options
in one of two places. SPA caching and SPA timeout settings can be configured in
System Settings. If you wish to disable SPA for a certain link, page, or portlet
in your site, you can do so within the corresponding element itself. All SPA
configuration options are covered here. 

### Configuring SPA System Settings [](id=configuring-spa-system-settings)

To configure system settings for SPA, follow these steps:

1. In the Control Panel, navigate to *Configuration* &rarr; *System Settings*.

2. Select the *Foundation* tab at the top of the page.

3. Click *Frontend SPA Infrastructure*.

+$$$

**Note:** In prior versions of Liferay, all SPA render requests that didn't
belong to a portlet (no `p_p_id` in the URL) were cached indefinitely. This can
confuse users, as the content they view is cached rather than the latest fresh
content. Since Liferay Portal CE 7.0 GA2 and Liferay DXP 7.0 GA1, administrators
can use the **Cache Expiration Time** property to set an expiration time for the
Senna cache.

$$$

The following configuration options are available:

**Cache Expiration Time**:  The time, in minutes, in which the SPA cache is
cleared. A negative value means the cache should be disabled.

**Request Timeout Time**: The time, in milliseconds, in which a SPA request
times out. A zero value means the request should never timeout.

**User Notification Time**: The time, in milliseconds, in which a notification
is shown to the user stating that the request is taking longer than expected. A
zero value means no notification should be shown.

Now that you know how to configure system settings for SPA, you can learn how to
disable SPA for elements in your site next.

### Disabling SPA [](id=disabling-spa)

Certain elements of your page may require a regular navigation to work properly. 
For example, you may have downloadable content that you want to share with the 
user. In these cases, SPA must be disabled for those specific elements.

To disable SPA on a portal wide basis, you can add the following line to your 
`portal-ext.properties`:

    javascript.single.page.application.enabled = false

If there is a portlet or element that you don't want to be part of the SPA, you
have some options:

-  Blacklist the portlet to disable SPA for the entire portlet
-  Use the `data-senna-off` annotation to disable SPA for a specific form or
   link

To blacklist a portlet from SPA, follow these steps:

1. Open your portlet class.

2. Set the `_singlePageApplication` property to false:

        _singlePageApplication = false;
        
   If you prefer, you can set this property to false in your `portlet.xml` 
   instead by adding the following property to the `<portlet>` section:
   
        <single-page-application>false</single-page-application>

3. Alternatively, you can override the [`isSinglePageApplication` method](@platform-ref@/7.0/javadocs/portal-impl/com/liferay/portal/model/impl/PortletImpl.html#isSinglePageApplication--)
   of the portlet to return `false`.

To disable SPA for a form or link follow these steps:

1. Add the `data-senna-off` attribute to the element.

2. Set the value to `true`.

For example `<a data-senna-off="true" href="/pages/page2.html">Page 2</a>`

That's all you need to do to disable SPA in your app.

Now that you know how to disable SPA, you can learn about the available SPA
lifecycle events next.

## Listening to SPA Lifecycle Events [](id=listening-to-spa-lifecycle-events)

During development, you may need to know when navigation has started or stopped
in your SPA. SennaJS makes this easy by exposing lifecycle events that
represent state changes in the application.  The following events are available:

**beforeNavigate**: Fires before navigation starts. This event passes a JSON
object with the path to the content being navigated to and whether to update the
history. Below is an example event payload:

    { path: '/pages/page1.html', replaceHistory: false }

**startNavigate**: Fires when navigation begins. Below is an example event
payload:

    { form: '<form name="form"></form>', path: '/pages/page1.html',
    replaceHistory: false }

**endNavigate**: Fired after the content has been retrieved and inserted onto
the page. This event passes the following JSON object:

    { form: '<form name="form"></form>', path: '/pages/page1.html' }

These events can be leveraged easily by listening for them on the Liferay global
object.

For example, the JavaScript below alerts the user to "Get ready to navigate to"
the URL that has been clicked, just before SPA navigation begins.

    Liferay.on('beforeNavigate', function(event) {
        alert("Get ready to navigate to " + event.path);
    });

The alert takes advantage of the payload for the `beforeNavigate` event,
retrieving the URL from the `path` attribute of the JSON payload object.

The above code results in the behavior shown below:

![Figure 1: You can leverage SPA lifecycle events in your apps.](../../images/private-messaging-before-navigate.png)

Due to the nature of SPA navigation, global listeners that you create can become 
problematic over time if not handled properly. You'll learn how to handle these 
listeners next.

## Detaching Global Listeners [](id=detaching-global-listeners)

SPA provides several improvements that highly benefit your site and users, but
there is potentially some additional maintenance as a consequence. In a
traditional navigation scenario, every page refresh resets everything, so you
don't have to worry about what's left behind. In a SPA scenario, however, global
listeners such as `Liferay.on` or `Liferay.after` or body delegates can become
problematic. Every time you execute these global listeners, you add yet another
listener to the globally persisted `Liferay` object. The result is multiple
invocations of those listeners. This can obviously cause problems if not
handled.

To prevent this, you need to listen to the navigation event in order to detach
your listeners. For example, you would use the following code to detach the
event listeners of a global `category` event:

    var onCategory = function(event) {...};

    var clearPortletHandlers = function(event) {
        if (event.portletId === '<%= portletDisplay.getRootPortletId() %>') {
            Liferay.detach('onCategoryHandler', onCategory);
            Liferay.detach('destroyPortlet', clearPortletHandlers);
        }
    };


    Liferay.on('category', onCategory);
    Liferay.on('destroyPortlet', clearPortletHandlers);

Now you know how to configure and use SPA in @product@!

## Related Topics [](id=related-topics)

[Configuring Modules for Liferay Portal's Loaders](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/configuring-modules-for-liferay-portals-loaders)

[Preparing your JavaScript Files for ES2015](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/preparing-your-javascript-files-for-es2015)

[Using ES2015 Modules in Your Portlet](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/using-es2015-modules-in-your-portlet)

