# Using Liferay as a Development Platform [](id=using-liferay-as-a-dev-platform)

Building your site on Liferay's development platform can give you a head start.
It provides everything you need to support your applications, so you can
concentrate solely on what *you're* building, and not the rest of the features
your users expect to come along with it. 

Imagine your application for a moment. Does it require users to register on
your site? Can users comment on content contained in your application? Is there
something that users can tag or categorize? If you think about how the code is
organized, would it benefit from modularization? Do you plan on having multiple
clients like web and mobile access a single back-end? Could you make use of
a rich JavaScript framework with many components built into it? How about
permissions---do you need to make information available to some users, but not
to all users? 

You get all this and much more. It's a very powerful platform, and certainly
worth your investigation. If you're a developer, it behooves you to check out
our 
[developer documentation](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-1/introduction-to-liferay-development).

## A Great Integration Platform [](id=a-great-integration-platform)

If you're building an enterprise system, portals were designed in the first
place to be a single point of entry to your users' applications and content.
Since @product@ integrates with user directories such as LDAP and Active
Directory, single sign-on systems such as SAML and OpenSSO, and authorization
systems like OAuth 2.0, it fits well into your enterprise systems. This makes it
a great integration platform for existing applications. 

@product@, since it adheres to the JSR standard for portlets, was designed
from the ground up for application integration. You can add any application
installed on the system to any page. You can make use of APIs provided by other
systems to integrate their data into an application window in Liferay. And
applications you create with Liferay's Service Builder framework can be web
service-enabled from the start. 

Developing applications is only one part of the platform. Many users value
@product@ for how it can be customized. Next, you'll see how you can customize
@product@ so that it looks and operates exactly the way you've envisioned for
your site. 
