# Trial Plugin Installation [](id=trial-plugin-installation)

For Liferay customers who are evaluating @product@ on a trial basis, **the
plugins can be accessed from within the *Apps* &rarr; *Store* (i.e.,
Marketplace) section of the Control Panel in your product installation**. 

## Installation Process [](id=installation-process)

Follow the steps below to install a trial plugin:

1.  Register a `liferay.com` account (LRDC) account by visiting Liferay's home
    page (if necessary). Do this by clicking *Sign In/Create Account* button
    from the top right Profile button.

    ![Figure 1: Hover over the Profile button and click *Sign In/Create Account*.](../../images-dxp/liferay-com-sign-in.png)

2.  Start your @product@ instance (trial license is OK).

3.  After signing in as an Admin in your @product@ trial server, go to the
    Control Panel &rarr; *Apps* &rarr; *Store* and configure the `liferay.com`
    (LRDC) account to log in to the Marketplace. Authorize Marketplace to access
    your local account.

    ![Figure 2: Click the *Store* link and authorize Marketplace to access your local account.](../../images-dxp/dxp-store-link.png)

4.  Once signed into the Store, click on the *Purchased* link, and then click on
    the *EE* subtab.

    ![Figure 3: The trial plugins are available as plugins already purchased.](../../images-dxp/dxp-store-ee.png)

    Here you can see a list of @product@ plugins that are installed, as well as
    options to update or install certain plugins. To install a plugin, click the
    *Install* button located to the far right of the respective plugin.
    Similarly, click the *Update* button to update a plugin.

+$$$

**Note:** At a later date, the Marketplace website on `liferay.com` will be
accessible to @product@ trial customers. For now, please access subscription
apps through the portal installation itself. 

$$$

## FAQ [](id=faq)

**Q:** Where are the *@product@ Trial Plugins*?

**A:** There is no such thing. The @product@ plugins in Liferay Marketplace are
the same ones that you get to try out with your @product@ trial license for your
portal. The @product@ license (trial or official @product@ subscriber) gives you
access to the @product@ plugins. Also, there is no difference code-wise or
release-wise between a @product@ trial installation and a regular @product@
non-trial installation. The only difference is the license.

**Q:** Why can't I go to liferay.com/marketplace? Why can't I *purchase* from
the Marketplace site?

**A:** DXP trial users must use the Marketplace from within the product's
Control Panel (instructions above). You do not need to *purchase* any DXP
plugins because if you access Marketplace from within the Control Panel,
Marketplace sees that you have a DXP license installed and gives access to DXP
plugins. Official DXP subscription customers (i.e., non trial) can log into
`liferay.com` with their designated DXP subscriber login and access all DXP
plugins through the Marketplace website. 

**Q:** Why are the plugins under the Purchased tab? If I click on the
*DXP Marketplace* link, it does not let me get the DXP plugins.

**A:** Once you're signed into the Store, click on the *Purchased* tab,
then click on the *EE* subtab.

**Q:** What happens when DXP trial customers become official Liferay Digital
Experience subscribers?

**A:** They can still complete the above process, or they can also visit the
[Liferay Marketplace website](https://www.liferay.com/marketplace).

**Q:** Do DXP trial customers get the DXP source code?

**A:** No, they can only install the plugin. The DXP source code becomes
available once they are official @product@ Enterprise subscribers.

**Q:** Can this process of installing DXP plugins be used from Liferay Portal CE
(Community Edition)?

**A:** No, the Marketplace must detect that you are running @product@.
