# Felix Gogo Shell [](id=using-the-felix-gogo-shell)

To interact with @product@'s module framework on a local server machine, you can
use the Felix Gogo shell within [Blade CLI](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/7-0/blade-cli).

Here's the command syntax:

    blade sh <gogoShellCommand>

+$$$

If you're not using Blade CLI, you can start the Gogo shell from a local telnet
session. 

    telnet localhost 11311

To disconnect the session, execute the `disconnect` command. 

**Warning**: Commands  `shutdown`, `close`, and `exit` stop the OSGi framework.
So make sure to use the `disconnect` command to end the telnet Gogo Shell
session. 

$$$

Here are some useful Gogo shell commands:

`help`: lists all the available Gogo shell commands. Notice that each command
has two parts to its name, separated by a colon. For example, the full name of
the `help` command is `felix:help`. The first part is the command scope while
the second part is the command function. The scope allows commands with the same
name to be disambiguated. E.g., scope allows the `felix:refresh` command to be
distinguished from the `equinox:refresh` command.

`help <command name>`: lists information about a specific command including a
description of the command, the scope of the command, and information about any
flags or parameters that can be supplied when invoking the command.

`lb`: lists all of the bundles installed in Liferay's module framework. Use
the `-s` flag to list the bundles using the bundles' symbolic names.

`b <bundle ID>`: lists information about a specific bundle including the
bundle's symbolic name, bundle ID, data root, registered (provided) and used
services, imported and exported packages, and more

`headers <bundle ID>`: lists metadata about the bundle from the bundle's
`MANIFEST.MF` file

`diag <bundle ID>`: lists information about why the specified bundle is not
working (e.g., unresolved dependencies, etc.)

`packages <package name>`: lists all of the named package's dependencies 

`scr:list`: lists all of the components registered in the module framework
(*scr* stands for service component runtime)

`services`: lists all of the services that have been registered in Liferay's
module framework

`inspect capability service <bundle ID>`: lists services exposed by a bundle

`install <path to JAR file>`: installs the specified bundle into Liferay's
module framework

`start <bundle ID>`: starts the specified bundle

`stop <bundle ID>`: stops the specified bundle

`uninstall <bundle ID>`: uninstalls the specified bundle from Liferay's module
framework

`system:getproperties`: lists all of the system properties

For more information about the Gogo shell, please visit [http://felix.apache.org/documentation/subprojects/apache-felix-gogo.html](http://felix.apache.org/documentation/subprojects/apache-felix-gogo.html).
