# Building Content Pages from Fragments [](id=building-content-pages-from-fragments)

After Page Fragment collections are published, you are ready to create Page
Templates.  A Page Template is composed of some number of Fragments---one or
fifty; it doesn't matter.

## Creating a Page Template [](id=creating-a-page-template)

You create Page Templates in the *Pages* page in Site Administration.

1.  From Site Administration for your Site, go to *Build* &rarr; *Pages*.

2.  Select the Page Templates tab. Like Fragments, Content Page Templates must
    be created in Collections. Your Collections appear on the Page Templates
    page. 

3.  Click the *New* button to add a Collection.

4.  *Name* your Collection, provide a *Description*, and click *Save*.

5.  Click on the new Collection.

6.  Click the *Add* icon (
    ![Add Page Template](../../../../../../images/icon-add.png)) 
    and select *Content Page Template* from inside the Collection.

7.  Set the *Name* and click *Submit*.

Now you're on the Page Template creation page. Fragments are added by selecting 
a Collection from the *Fragments* tab on the right and adding them to the page. 
You can add multiple Fragments from different collections, and you can add the
same Fragment to the page multiple times. To see the Fragments that comprise the
current page, you can check the *Added* tab. The template is automatically saved
as you work, but you must click *Publish* to make it available for use.

![Figure 1: Drag Fragments to create a Page Template.](../../../../../../images/content-page-template-creation.png)

If the template contains editable text, you can click on the editable text area
to change the text.

![Figure 2: Editing text in-line lets you customize what's on the template.](../../../../../../images/edit-text-inline.png)

If the template contains an editable image, you can click on the image and 
replace it by uploading your own image or selecting one from Documents and
Media.

![Figure 3: When you mouse over an editable image, a blue outline appears. You can replace it by clicking on it.](../../../../../../images/edit-image-inline.png)

+$$$

Note: While creating Page Templates, you can change editable Fragments. While
creating the final Content Page, you can make changes to the Page Template.
Changes you make to the Fragment for a Page Template are only reflected in that
Page Template, and don't affect the Fragment itself. Likewise, when you apply
edits to the text or images of a Content Page, those changes only exist on the
current page and not on the Page Template itself.

$$$

Click on the back arrow at the top to stop editing the template.

## Creating a Content Page [](id=creating-a-content-page)

When you're finished creating a Page Template, you can use that template to
create a Content Page. A Content Page is a page created from Fragments. Any
attributes of the page that were defined by the developer as editable can be
edited during the creation of the page or page template.

1.  Go back to *Build* &rarr; *Pages*.

2.  Click the *Add* icon (
    ![Add Page](../../../../../../images/icon-add.png)) for *Add Page* and 
    select *Public Page*.

3.  Select the Collection that contains the template you want to use from the
    *Collections* menu on the left.

4.  Click on the template you want to use.

5.  Enter a *Name*.

6.  Click *Save*.

The page is published immediately, but you can edit the final page. You can
change the chosen Fragments and edit any editable fields so that the final page
is different from the Page Template.

![Figure 4: Selecting you page template.](../../../../../../images/selecting-template.png)

Alternatively, you can create a Content Page without a template. From the page
creation screen,

1.  Select *Basic Pages* from under *Collections*.

2.  Select *Content Page*.

3.  Enter a *Name* and click *Save*.

5.  Add Fragments to create your new page.
 
By default, your new page is added to the Navigation Menu and users can access
the page you created. Next you'll learn how to import and export Page Fragments.
