# Connecting Liferay Sync Mobile [](id=connecting-liferay-sync-mobile)

When Liferay Sync first starts on your mobile device, press the *Get Started*
button to begin setup. The setup screen asks for your login credentials and your
server's address. Once you enter them, press *Sign In*. After signing in, you
see a panel that shows your name, a gear icon for accessing the app's settings,
and navigation options *My Sites* and *My Documents*. My Sites and My Documents
encompass the Sites in @product@ that you can sync with. My Documents is your
personal user Site, while My Sites shows the other Sites with which you can
sync. No matter how deep you are in the folder hierarchy of a Site, swiping to
the right returns you to this panel. If you're in the first level of My Sites
or My Documents, pressing the location bar at the top slides the screen
slightly to the right to reveal a compact view of the panel. The following
screenshots show both views of the panel. 

![Figure 1: This panel lets you access the app's settings, as well as your Sites and documents.](../../../../images/sync-mobile-panel.png)

![Figure 2: Tapping the title bar at the top of My Sites or My Documents opens the main Sync panel's compact view.](../../../../images/sync-mobile-panel-compact.png)

Press the gear icon to access Sync's settings. Settings shows your account
information and an option to sign out of your @product@ instance. Settings also 
lets you toggle *Security Mode*. Security Mode protects files stored on your 
device by encrypting them. Using Security Mode requires you to set up a passcode 
to use when accessing the Sync app. Security Mode protects the files on your 
device and @product@ instance in the event your device is lost or stolen. You 
should note, however, downloading and opening files in Security Mode takes 
slightly longer than usual because the @product@ server must use SSL---if it 
didn't, your files would be transmitting in the open. Below the Security Mode 
toggle are the app's version and a link to send app feedback to Liferay. 

![Figure 3: The Settings screen for the Sync app lets you sign out of your @product@ instance, enable Security Mode, view the app's version, and send feedback.](../../../../images/sync-mobile-settings.png)
